{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue233;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c93333;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww17280\viewh13200\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Personally, I'm going to be building a PC in the near future. It's going to use what some call older specs, but realistically are just what I need for the time being. Going from a computer about the same speed as yours to ANYTHING faster will feel like lightning to me.\'a0\
You mentioned in a reply that you're not familiar with computer specs. If you're looking for an upgrade to PC, there are plenty of PC builders here on reddit, all over youtube, and using sites like {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://newegg.com/"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 newegg.com}} or {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://pcpartspicker.com/"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 pcpartspicker.com}} can\'a0 help you not only find what you need, but good specs that will work together well.\'a0\
For reference, here's what I'm going to build in the next few months:\
Intel 17-12700k 3.6GHz, up to 4.9GHz\uc0\u8232 Nvidia 4070 ti SUPER 16GB VRAM - (We have ~1.5GB VRAM)\u8232 Kingston DDR5 64GB RAM\'a0 - (We have LPDDR3 8GB RAM)\u8232 Samsung 2TB SSD\'a0 - (I have 128GB, I assume you have 256GB)\
There are other things like power supplies and fans on my list, but these are the performance things that will dictate your blender capabilities. While some of these things may seem intuitive in how they will improve performance, others wont as much, but all will be a MASSIVE upgrade.\
For example, it may seem obvious that more RAM = more gooder, but it goes father than that. The RAM (Random Access Memory) in our laptops is (LP)DDR3, verses the DDR5 that will be in my PC, and that's not just a random number. That 3 is like a generation of the technology, so in the same way, it's newer, better and faster. The 2 big numbers in RAM that matter are MT/s (Mega Transfers per second), and GB/s. To explain them both, we can look at it like a road. MT/s is the number of lanes, and the GB/s is the posted speed. So our RAM can carry an okay number of files too and from where they need to go, but if you had to drive cross-country on 2 lane, 50km/h backroads, you\'92d feel the same drag your laptop is with blender. Meanwhile, all my files will be delivered in big semi trucks on 16 lane highways going 120KM/h. On top of all that, I\'92m getting 8x what we have now! So all that performance increase is exponential.\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.crucial.com/articles/about-memory/difference-among-ddr2-ddr3-ddr4-and-ddr5-memory"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 Here}} are the actual numbers if you\'92re interested, plus a better explanation.\
\
The other part that\'92s important is the CPU (Central Processing Unit). In the same boat as the RAM, it\'92s a newer generation, and just so happens to be faster. It can process more actions better, but also doing it with greater speeds (measured in GHz). I\'92m far less savvy with CPUs, but essentially, the manufacturers goal is to create pathways on the CPU that allow for more efficient passing of \'93instructions\'94. These instructions are basically what they sound like, how to do what you told the computer to do. Not only are they making better paths, but they make better ways to process these instructions.\'a0\
In our case, it\'92s best to simply think about it in terms of generations. I have Intel i5-8210Y, which is a lot of numbers that don\'92t really matter to us, except the \'938\'94, which signifies the generation. I believe your Macbook is a 9? But had a hard time finding it with the switch to Apple silicone. Nevertheless, this is a massive upgrade. Not only are these CPUs3 and 4 generations behind, but they\'92re mobile CPUs, widely regarded as underpowered. This is for battery efficiency. Most Desktop CPUs are drawing well over 100 watts, while these chips tend to hover around 10 watts. And again, only 1.4GHz, rather than going up to 4.9GHz.\'a0\
All in all, bigger number is better. More GHz, newer generation, much gooder.\
The graphics card is same thing, but 2 fold. Not only are you getting better, and more, VRAM (RAM dedicated to the graphics card), but it\'92s also a better GPU (Graphic Processing Unit). It\'92s like the best of the CPU and RAM upgrade, combined. Not only that, but this is the largest upgrade of all, considering that your CPU was doing all the GPU stuff before, so more head room on the CPU itself! The GPU is handling all your complex geometry math now, and your CPU can simply send tasks to the GPU, rather than run around with it\'92s head cut off.\
\
The storage is an obvious one, but all in all, it works in tandem with your RAM to keep it free from distraction and headstrong on the task at hand. If you ever want to take a look at how storage affects your RAM, open up the spotlight search and type in \'93Activity Monitor\'94. There, you can go to the \'93Memory\'94 tab and look at the \'93Swap Used\'94. This will tell you how much of the RAM is being written to storage. The more that it\'92s writing to the SSD, the more memory your computer needs. It\'92s trying to give itself space to breath, and will pull that information back into the RAM when it\'92s required. With how much math is being done in blender, it needs RAM to hold the calculations before handing them off to the CPU or GPU.\'a0\
\
What does this mean for me? I\'92m getting a computer far beyond what you and I have now, able to work in the millions of tris, rather than the thousands. But like I said before, if you\'92re serious about 3D, or are simply ready for an upgrade, check out PC builder subs, youtube, and other forms, along with websites that have a compatibility feature when picking out parts. Conversely, if you\'92re looking at getting another Apple computer, look at a M2 or above, and the pro/max/ultra variants are adjacent with Intel\'92s i5/i7/i9 (bigger number = better) a with lots of RAM. Refurbished Macs aren\'92t something to shy away from either!That RAM in the Macs is shared, meaning BOTH your \'93graphics card\'94 and \'93CPU\'94 will use it. Look for a minimum of 16GB, and even that\'92s a bit risky if you want to get serious with 3D. Like I said before, more RAM = more gooder.\
\
Hope this helps you understand things, and guides you to a great upgrade when the time comes! If you need anything, message me anytime :)\
}